Simulated datasets were generated for ocean colour sensors SeaWiFS, MODIS-Aqua, VIIRS, MERIS, OLCI and Copernicus Sentinel-3 Sea and Land Surface Temperature Radiometer (SLSTR).

The dataset for each sensor contains the following, where "sensor" represents the respective sensor name:

- "sensor_InputParameter.txt" - input parameters for the simulation, in the format: SZA, VZA, RAA, $\tau_a$(865), angstrom(443/865), $f_v$, relative humidity (RH), CHL, CDOM, and mineral particles (MIN).
- "sensor\_RadianceTOA.txt" - TOA radiances for each simulation case. These radiances were simulated with atmospheric gas absorption, Rayleigh scattering, aerosol and ocean IOPs turned on. The number of columns in the file depends on the sensor. For example, there are 16 columns in each line for MODIS, one for each band.
- "sensor_RadianceTOA_gas_corrected.txt" - "atmospheric-gas-corrected" TOA radiances for each simulation case. The radiances were simulated with atmospheric gas absorption turned off, but Rayleigh scattering, aerosol, and ocean IOPs turned on. The number of columns in the file depends on the sensor. For example, there are 16 columns in each line for MODIS, one for each band. These radiances can be used to validate the atmospheric gas correction algorithm.
- "sensor_RadianceTOA_gas_rayleigh_corrected.txt" - "atmospheric-gas-and-Rayleigh-corrected" TOA radiances using data from "sensor_RadianceTOA_gas_corrected.txt" with the pure Rayleigh scattering radiances subtracted. The pure Rayleigh scattering radiances were simulated with only Rayleigh scattering turned on, and atmospheric gas absorption, aerosol, and ocean IOPs turned off. The number of columns in the file depends on the sensor. For example, there are 16 columns in each line for MODIS, one for each band.
- "sensor_Rrs.txt" - remote sensing reflectance $R_{rs}$ for each simulation case. The remote sensing reflectance was computed as the water leaving radiance divided by the downwelling irradiance just above the surface. The water leaving radiance was simulated as described in IOCCG Report 21 Chapter 4.4. The simulation was done with atmospheric gas absorption, Rayleigh scattering, and aerosols turned on in the atmosphere. This "sensor_Rrs.txt" includes two sets of data. The first half of the columns include nadir $R_{rs}$ values ($\theta_{\theta}$= SZA; $\theta$= $\theta$; $\Delta\theta = \theta$) and the second half of the columns include the corresponding $R_{rs}$ values at the geometry of ($\theta_{\theta}$ = SZA; $\theta$ = VZA; $\Delta\phi$ = RAA). For example, there are 32 columns in the file "MODIS Rrs.txt". The first 16 columns contain the nadir $R_{rs}$ values (SZA, 0, 0) for each band, while the next 16 columns contain the corresponding $R_{rs}$ values at geometry (SZA, VZA, RAA). The second set of $R_{rs}$ data can be used to validate the atmospheric correction algorithm. The first set of $R_{rs}$ data can be used to validate the BRDF algorithm.
- "sensor_aerosolReflectance.txt" - reflectance for aerosols (no molecular scattering or absorption, but including molecule/aerosol interactions) at the TOA. These reflectances were computed as $Radiance_{aerosol}(TOA)/E_{d}(TOA)$, and correspond to $\rho_a + \rho_{ra}$ as defined by Gordon and Wang (1994). There is a factor of $\pi$ difference: Gordon and Wang (1994) defines the reflectance as $\rho= \pi L/( \mu_0 F_0)$, (the dimensionless bidirectional radiance reflectance factor) while we use $\rho = L/(\mu_0 F_0)$. Then $R_{rs}$ is calculated as $R_{rs}= \rho_w / \pi$. Detailed definitions are provided in IOCCG Report 21.
- "sensor_diffuseTransmittance.txt" - two-way diffuse transmittance for aerosols and molecular scattering (no molecular absorption).

## Authors: 
Sean Bailey, Sundarabalan V. Balasubramanian, Xianqiang He, Cédric Jamet, Thomas Schroeder, Palanasimy Shanmugam, Knut Stamnes, Sindy Sterckx